term-2/L6-convolutional-neural-networks/convolutional-layers.md, before:

# Convolutional Layers
A type of hidden layer using local connectivity - that can be used in CNN's.
* Nodes in each layer are connected to a small subset of the previous layers nodes

1. Select a width and height for an **image kernel/convolution window** (called either)
    * ![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-47-00.png)
2. 'Slide' convolution window horizontally and vertically over matrix of image pixels
    * ![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-47-18.png)
3. Each position of the windows defines a collection of pixels for a region
4. Each collection of pixels is connected to a single hidden node
    * ![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-47-47.png)
5. All the hidden nodes for the image produce a convolutional layer

View [aind2-cnn/conv-visualization/conv_visualization.ipynb](./aind2-cnn/conv-visualization/conv_visualization.ipynb)

## Filters
Represents weights for a **pattern of pixels**, used to calculate the values of the nodes in a hidden layer.

Each filter uses different weights in order to **detect different patterns**.

Diagonal white line filter:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-50-17.png)

The maximum value for this filter is 3, and will only occur with a diagonal white line surrounding by black. 

The filter will detect that this region in the input layer is identical to the previous one - the patterns match:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-52-43.png)

Convolutional layers will have many collections of nodes, each representing a different filter:

Blue and green nodes represent 2 different filters:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-55-19.png)

Filters 1 and 2 detect vertical edges. Filters 3 and 4 detect horizontal edges:
* Edges in an image are lines of darker pixels next to line of lighter pixels

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-58-11.png)

## Colour Images
Interpreted as 3d array of 2d matrices, for RGB each corresponding to one of Red Green and Blue channels:
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-00-43.png)

Use 3d array for filters:
* One 2d array filter for each colour channel

![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-01-28.png)

For **one filter** on a colour image:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-02-13.png)

Multiple filters on colour image:
* Multiple 3d arrays, each defining a filter

![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-03-52.png)

## Multiple Layers
Take feature maps from a convolutional layer and stack to create a 3d array:
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-05-15.png)
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-05-24.png)

Use the 3d array as input to another convolutional layer:
* Discover patterns within patterns (within patterns...)
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-05-51.png)

Commit message:

add note about initialising filters randomly for training

term-2/L6-convolutional-neural-networks/convolutional-layers.md, after:

# Convolutional Layers
A type of hidden layer using local connectivity - that can be used in CNN's.
* Nodes in each layer are connected to a small subset of the previous layers nodes

1. Select a width and height for an **image kernel/convolution window** (called either)
    * ![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-47-00.png)
2. 'Slide' convolution window horizontally and vertically over matrix of image pixels
    * ![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-47-18.png)
3. Each position of the windows defines a collection of pixels for a region
4. Each collection of pixels is connected to a single hidden node
    * ![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-47-47.png)
5. All the hidden nodes for the image produce a convolutional layer

View [aind2-cnn/conv-visualization/conv_visualization.ipynb](./aind2-cnn/conv-visualization/conv_visualization.ipynb)

## Filters
Represents weights for a **pattern of pixels**, used to calculate the values of the nodes in a hidden layer.

Each filter uses different weights in order to **detect different patterns**.

Diagonal white line filter:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-50-17.png)

The maximum value for this filter is 3, and will only occur with a diagonal white line surrounding by black. 

The filter will detect that this region in the input layer is identical to the previous one - the patterns match:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-52-43.png)

Convolutional layers will have many collections of nodes, each representing a different filter:

Blue and green nodes represent 2 different filters:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-55-19.png)

Filters 1 and 2 detect vertical edges. Filters 3 and 4 detect horizontal edges:
* Edges in an image are lines of darker pixels next to line of lighter pixels

![](../../images/2018-01-29-11-58-11.png)

Similar to weights in an MLP, filters are initialised randomly and adjusted during training.

## Colour Images
Interpreted as 3d array of 2d matrices, for RGB each corresponding to one of Red Green and Blue channels:
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-00-43.png)

Use 3d array for filters:
* One 2d array filter for each colour channel

![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-01-28.png)

For **one filter** on a colour image:

![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-02-13.png)

Multiple filters on colour image:
* Multiple 3d arrays, each defining a filter

![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-03-52.png)

## Multiple Layers
Take feature maps from a convolutional layer and stack to create a 3d array:
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-05-15.png)
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-05-24.png)

Use the 3d array as input to another convolutional layer:
* Discover patterns within patterns (within patterns...)
* ![](../../images/2018-01-29-12-05-51.png)
